# Overview {#header}

In unit 5 we will examine the next major section of a research report:
the methods and results. In this unit, we will see that the methods
section indicates the overall plan for how the research was conducted,
how the data was collected, and what the analysis of the data tells us.
These may be termed research design, method, and analysis and results,
respectively. Because of significant differences in quantitative and
qualitative methods, we will break this discussion into two units. This
unit will focus on the methods and results of quantitative research
reports.

::: {#topics-4 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Topics[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#topics-4){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Unit 5 is divided into 4 topics:

1.  Introduction to Quantitative and Qualitative Research Design
2.  Quantitative Research Designs
3.  Quantitative Data Collection
4.  Quantitative Data Analysis and Results
:::

::: {#learning-outcomes-4 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Learning Outcomes[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#learning-outcomes-4){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

When you have completed this unit you should be able to:

1.  Describe the differences between a quantitative and qualitative
    research report
2.  Evaluate the research design, participants, data collection,
    analysis and results of a quantitative research report on servant
    leadership.
3.  Reflect on the importance of understanding the methods and results
    section of a quantitative research report for the critical consumer
    of research.
:::

::: {#activity-checklist-4 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Activity Checklist[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#activity-checklist-4){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Learning Activities**
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Activity:** Watch a video on Qualitative & Quantitative Research - An
  Introduction.

  **Activity:** Read chapter 6 and 7 in your text. Evaluate the research
  design in the servant leadership article you chose.

  **Activity:** Read chapter 8 and 9 in your text. Evaluate the
  participants and data collection in the servant leadership article you
  chose.

  **Activity:** Read two articles and chapter 12 in your text. Evaluate
  the data analysis and results in the servant leadership article you
  chose.

  **Assessment:** Contribute to the course discussions. See Assessment
  tab in Moodle for details.

  **Assessment:** Complete Article Critique Part 2 (Assignment #3)
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#resources-4 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Resources[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#resources-4){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Here are the resources you will need to complete the unit:

-   Rosch,¬†D.¬†M.,¬†Kniffin,¬†L.¬†E.,¬†& Guthrie,¬†K.¬†L.¬†(2023).¬†*Introduction
    to research in leadership*. Information Age Publishing.

-   *E-Resources:* The articles in this unit can be found through the
    [TWU library](https://www.twu.ca/library){target="_blank"}.
:::


# Introduction to Quantitative and Qualitative Research Design {#header}

In this unit we will explore the next major section of a research
report: The methods and results section. We will see that the methods
section indicates the **overall plan** for how the research was
conducted, how the data was collected, and what the analysis of the data
tells us. These may be termed research design, method, and analysis and
results, respectively. In unit 5 we will be looking at the methods and
results sections of **quantitative research reports**. Once again we
start with the reminder that we are *reviewing* these materials in order
to become an *informed consumer of research*, rather than research
experts. Before we get into the specifics of the methods and results of
quantitative research reports, it would be helpful to take a step back
and remind ourselves of some of the features of the broader research
landscape.

By now you should be familiar with the terms quantitative research and
qualitative research. Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015) assert that these
research approaches are suited to different kinds of research questions:
a quantitative research approach is indicated when the research problem
requires ***explanation***, while a qualitative research approach is
indicated when the research problem requires ***exploration*** (p.¬†85).
Expanding on that somewhat, Leedy and Ormrod assert that quantitative
research has three purposes: to explain and predict, to confirm and
validate, and to test theory. In contrast, qualitative research has
three distinct purposes: to describe and explain, to explore and
interpret, and to build theory (Leedy & Ormrod, 2010, p.¬†96). These
differing research purposes find expression in differing research
processes, the kinds of data gathered, the approaches to data analysis,
and finally in the ways findings are communicated.

In this unit we will be looking at the methods and results sections of
*quantitative research reports,* and in unit 6 we will do the same for
qualitative research reports. We will see that there are a variety of
different research designs under both of these general approaches. For
example, Gill and Johnson (2002) have developed a helpful continuum (see
the figure below) that describes the relative emphasis of various
research designs on selected characteristics. They argue that
quantitative designs (including survey research) tend towards deduction
while qualitative designs are inductive in nature.

[ ![](Gill_Johnson.png.png){width="650" height="377"}
[]{.ally-image-cover file-id="013b187d97396212d2c20c6d7948e9125deb0ac1"}
[ []{.ally-feedback file-id="013b187d97396212d2c20c6d7948e9125deb0ac1"
file-url="Gill_Johnson.png.png"} ]{.ally-actions aria-hidden="true"}
]{.filter-ally-wrapper .ally-image-wrapper}

::: figure
![](https://learn.twu.ca/assets/unit5/Gill_Johnson.png.png){target="_blank"}

Figure 5.1: Gill and Johnson's continuum of research design emphases
:::

According to Leedy and Ormrod, the nature of quantitative and
qualitative research designs differ (2010, p.¬†96). Quantitative designs
tend to be more closely focused on a problem that has known variables
that can be controlled or at least accounted for. The investigation is
conducted following established guidelines utilizing largely
predetermined methods while the researcher seeks to maintain a detached
view. In contrast, qualitative designs tend to be more holistic,
investigating unknown variables following flexible guidelines utilizing
emergent methods in a highly context-bound, personal approach.
Qualitative designs may be characterized as evolving and flexible,
sometimes guided by a general hunch as to how to proceed (Bogdan &
Biklen, 2007, p.¬†45).

These differing designs lead to marked differences in what data are
collected, how data are collected, and how data are analyzed.
Quantitative research seeks to collect numeric data from as large a
sample as possible so to enhance claims to being representative, using
standardized data collection instruments. Qualitative research gathers
textual or image-based data from typically small, informative samples
using loosely structured or non-standardized interviews or observations
(Leedy & Ormrod, 2010, p.¬†96).

The differing designs of quantitative and qualitative research also lead
to marked differences in how data are analyzed. Quantitative data is
approached primarily through deductive reasoning, employing statistical
analyses applied to numerical data, with stress on objectivity.
Qualitative data is approached primarily through inductive reasoning
with the goal being to uncover themes and categories, with
acknowledgement of potential researcher bias and subjectivity.
Typically, quantitative research findings are reported in a formal,
scientific style with full display of numbers and statistics, while
qualitative research findings are typically reported in a narrative form
(Leedy & Ormrod, 2010, p.¬†96). In the following sections, we will
explore this somewhat for quantitative research.


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-watch-and-reflect-2 .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="5.1.1"}
### Watch and Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#learning-activity-watch-and-reflect-2){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: reflect
üì∫ To begin this learning activity, watch the following video
Qualitative & Quantitative Research - An Introduction.

‚úèÔ∏è After reading the chapters assigned, complete the questions for this
learning activity in your reflective learning journal.

-   Discuss the differences between qualitative and quantitative
    research reports.
-   What did you learn that you did not already know about servant
    leadership?
-   What are the potential challenges for studying servant leadership
    using a quantitative research approach?

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::
::::


# Quantitative Research Designs {#header}

Quantitative research designs typically rely on the researcher beginning
with a theoretical (or conceptual) framework that will determine what
concepts the researcher chooses to investigate, the research questions,
and the framing of research findings (Corbin & Strauss, 2008, p.¬†39).
These frameworks lead to a structured, predetermined, formal, and
specifically detailed plan of operation (Bogdan & Biklen, 2007, p.¬†45).

In Chapter 6 and 7, Rosch, Kniffen and Guthrie (2023) discuss five
quantitative research designs. Experiments---particularly randomized
control trials (RCTs)---are often held up as the "gold standard" of
research, meeting the criteria of randomization, control, and
manipulation of variables (i.e., experimental procedures, treatments, or
interventions). In the domain of knowledge transfer and evidence-based
practice, RCTs are considered as the highest level or most reliable form
of evidence. For further understanding see the following video by David
Schwartz "Not All Scientific Studies are Created Equal".

By way of caution, Gill and Johnson (2002) observe that management and
leadership research seldom employs true experimentation. Having said
this, there is relevance for us because the logic underpinning
experimental research applies to other types of deductive research that
are more common in management and leadership research. When not all of
the rigorous standards required of experiments can be applied to a
study, researchers approximate some of the logic of the experiment with
quasi-experimental designs.

In true experimental and quasi-experimental designs, the researcher
intentionally introduces an intervention, and then seeks to measure the
response to that intervention. The main difference between experimental
and quasi-experimental designs lies in the way sampling is done. In
non-experimental quantitative research designs, the researcher seeks to
understand the behavior or attributes of the study sample without any
researcher intervention. The terms descriptive and correlational are
often applied to these types of quantitative research designs.

As a consumer of research reports, you can usually find an indication of
what research methodology is employed in the abstract of a research
study. This is important information for you to identify, as you will
quickly develop a sense of what to expect as you continue to read. This
sense is important as you critique the research report, and make value
judgments as to its worth.

::: {#a-note-about-survey-research .section .level5 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
##### A Note About Survey Research[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#a-note-about-survey-research){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

At this point we want to focus on survey research for a few moments
because of its wide use in leadership and management settings. While the
survey is a method of data collection that may be used in qualitative
research (Gall, Gall & Borg, 2007, p.¬†227), it is extensively employed
in quantitative research (Rosch, Kniffen and Guthrie, 2023). Be aware of
ambiguities in how the term survey is used (see "Here's a Tip!" on page
207). Often the term is used as a general label to denote the use of
questionnaires or interviews in research. Because of the differences in
intentions for generalizability between quantitative and qualitative
research, this ambiguity is not helpful.

Survey research is a popular research method used to generalize from a
sample to a population in order that inferences can be made about some
characteristic, attitude, or behavior of the larger population
(Creswell, 2003). Survey research may be conducted through use of either
questionnaires or interviews. These methods allow the researcher to
collect data about observable phenomena as well as phenomena that would
be difficult to otherwise assess (i.e., opinions, values, feelings,
etc.). Questionnaires present the same questions in some form of print
to all study participants uniformly, and responses are received in like
manner. In interviews, the researcher presents the same questions orally
to study participants, usually one at a time, but increasingly in
groups, and the responses are received orally. The main difference in
the two approaches lies in the fact that with questionnaires the
research participant is largely in control of the response situation,
whereas in the interview the researcher is largely in control. Each
approach has relative advantages and disadvantages, but share in common
the desire to collect data in standardized ways. For this reason, closed
ended questions are typically used.

As a consumer of survey research reports, be vigilant for potential
issues of validity and reliability. Validity is a term that forces us to
question the likelihood of whether the instrument or study measure
actually measures what the researcher says it does. Reliability issues
concern the consistency or repeatability of the instrument. Be aware
that survey research is commonly criticized on these grounds.
:::


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-7 .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="5.2.1"}
### Watch, Read, and Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-7){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: reflect
üì∫ Begin this learning activity by watching the following video

QUANTITATIVE Research Design: Everything You Need To Know (With
Examples) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VQbkw-SI8c4

üìñ Next, read chapter 6 and 7,¬† in Rosch, Kniffen and Guthrie (2023).

‚úèÔ∏è Practice evaluating the quality of a study's research design, using
the quality criteria discussed in TRosch, Kniffen and Guthrie (2023) to
evaluate the quality of the research design.

‚úèÔ∏è Finally, in your learning journal, identify what your overall quality
rating is of this section and list three pieces of evidence to support
your rating. Make some notes about what you would look for in a high
quality "Research Design" for a quantitative research report.

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::
::::


# Quantitative Data Collection {#header}

When researchers are collecting data for a quantitative research study,
they need to address two important questions: who is the data being
collected from, and how are they collecting it? In answering the first
question, the terms *population* and *sample* are salient. Population is
the large category that encompasses all of the individuals who possess
or exhibit certain characteristics of interest. Quantitative data is
usually collected from large samples, selected ideally through random
selection.

Sample refers to the individuals from the population that you actually
gather data from. The goal in sampling is to find a representative
sample that accurately represents that population. In quantitative
research, a primary interest of researchers is in *generalizability*:
which is to what degree can the results of our research study be
generalized back to the population? This generalization is called
external validity and requires an inferential leap from the sample back
to the population.

In quantitative research, samples are drawn from the population through
processes of *probability sampling* and *non-probability sampling
techniques.* A number of sampling techniques are discussed by
Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015) in Chapter 7. The gold standard is a
true random sample of the population. This is where everyone gets an
equal opportunity to be selected as a representative sample, and this is
known as probability sampling.

The second major consideration in qualitative data collection is how the
data is collected. In quantitative research, data collection instruments
and tools are used most often to capture variables of interest. This may
include using inventories, questionnaires, indexes, scales and test
scores (Bogdan & Biklen, 2007, p.¬†46). As a consumer of research, when
judging the quality of tests used in research consider the criteria of
fairness, generalizability, cognitive complexity, content quality,
meaningfulness, content coverage and cost and efficiency (p.¬†217).

A variable is anything that can vary, i.e.¬†changed or be changed, such
as eating behaviour or time taken to perform a task. There are three
types of variables that are usually found in experimental
investigations: the dependent variable (or outcome), the independent
variable (treatment/predictor) and counfounding variable (extraneous
factors that could affect the results) .

In an experiment, the researcher is looking for the possible effect on
the dependent variable that might be caused by changing the independent
variable, while controlling for extraneous variables (Bogdan & Biklen,
2007, p.¬†45). These are all variables, which are not the independent
variable, but could affect the results of the experiment.

::: {#what-is-research-ethics .section .level4 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
#### What is Research Ethics?[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#what-is-research-ethics){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

According to [Walton
(n.d.)](https://researchethics.ca/what-is-research-ethics/){target="_blank"},
"research that involves human participants raises unique and complex
ethical, legal, social and political issues. There are three objectives
in research ethics. The first and broadest objective is to protect human
participants. The second objective is to ensure that research is
conducted in a way that serves interests of individuals, groups and/or
society as a whole. Finally, the third objective is to examine specific
research activities and projects for their ethical soundness, looking at
issues such as the management of risk, protection of confidentiality and
the process of informed consent".

Before a researcher can start collecting information from participants,
the research proposal must undergoe ethical review. In Canada, all
academic institutions and health authorities have a Research Ethics
Board (REB) and in the U.S. the same institutions have Institutional
Review Boards (IRB) that conduct the reviews. The purpose of the ethical
review process is to "ensure that research is planned and conducted in
accordance with laws and regulatory standards. In protecting the rights
and welfare of participants, REBs must weigh possible harms to
individuals against the plausible societal benefits of the research.
They must ensure fair participant selection and, where applicable,
confirm that appropriate provisions are in place for obtaining
participant consent" [(Page & Nyeboer, 2017, para.
2)](https://researchintegrityjournal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s41073-017-0038-7){target="_blank"}.
:::

::: {#what-is-informed-consent-by-usc-oprs .section .level4 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
#### What is Informed Consent? by [USC OPRS](https://oprs.usc.edu/files/2017/04/Informed-Consent-Booklet-4.4.13.pdf){target="_blank"}[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#what-is-informed-consent-by-usc-oprs){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Informed Consent is a voluntary agreement to participate in research. It
is not merely a form that is signed but is a process, in which the
participant has an understanding of the research and its risks. Informed
consent is essential before enrolling a participant and ongoing once
enrolled. Informed Consent must be obtained for all types of human
research including; diagnostic, therapeutic, interventional, social and
behavioral studies, and for research conducted domestically or abroad.
Obtaining consent involves informing the participant about his or her
rights, the purpose of the study, the procedures to be undergone, and
the potential risks and benefits of participation. Participants in the
study must participate willingly. Vulnerable populations
(i.e.¬†prisoners, children, pregnant women, etc.) must receive extra
protections. The goal of the informed consent process is to provide
sufficient information so that a participant can make an informed
decision about whether or not to enroll in a study or to continue
participation.
:::


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-8 .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="5.3.1"}
### Watch, Read, and Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-8){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: reflect
üì∫ Begin this learning activity by watching the following video:
Quantitative Data Collection Techniques -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9qtot92N9Q

üìñ Next, read chapter 7, in Rosch, Kniffen and Guthrie (2023).

‚úèÔ∏è Practice evaluating the quality of a quantitative study's
participants and data collection.

Use the quality criteria discussed in¬†Rosch, Kniffen and Guthrie (2023)
to evaluate the quality of the participants and data collection.

‚úèÔ∏è Finally, in your learning journal, identify what your overall quality
rating is of this section and list three pieces of evidence to support
your rating. Make some notes about what you would look for in a high
quality "Participants and Data Collection" section of a quantitative
research report.

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::
::::


# Quantitative Data Analysis and Results {#header}

Quantitative research data analysis is generally deductive, occurs at
the conclusion of data collection and is statistical (Bogdan and Biklen,
2007, p.¬†46). An in-depth understanding or even an overview of
statistical analysis is outside the parameters of this course. However,
even if you do not have a background in statistics, you must find your
way through what can initially appear to be a daunting discussion.

The methods section of a quantitative research report typically presents
a brief description of various statistical analysis of data. The
statistical analysis chosen depends on the kind of questions asked in
the research. Descriptive statistics include various measures of central
tendency (including mean, median, mode, skewness, and categorical data
such as frequency distribution), measures of variability (including
standard deviation, the normal curve, variance and range) and
correlational statistics (including bivariate and multivariate
correlational methods). Inferential statistics are applied to data in an
effort to answer comparison and relationship sorts of questions.

As a consumer of qualitative research reports, you will want to know
that the statistics employed are appropriate, and to be cautious about
accepting research findings if you detect any inconsistencies.

::: {#additional-resources-1 .section .level5 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
##### Additional Resources[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#additional-resources-1){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

I wanted to provide you with a few extra resources to help you
understand Quantitative Analysis and Results.

Here is a link to a really helpful website created by Dr.¬†Andy Field.
Dr.¬†Field goes into much more detail about everything you need to know
about statistics than the course textbook. Here is the website:
<https://www.discoveringstatistics.com/> If there is something you don't
understand when you are reading through the results section of a
quantitative research study, search Dr.¬†Field's website.
:::


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-read-evaluate-and-reflect .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="5.4.1"}
### Read, Evaluate and Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#learning-activity-read-evaluate-and-reflect){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: reflect
üì∫ Begin this learning activity by watching the following video

Quantitative Data Analysis 101 Tutorial: Descriptive vs Inferential
Statistics (With Examples) -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EUeQRE5UJpg&list=PLvcb33xNTVUmCUnhQxtizmm8hOGPvdTlF

üìñ Next, read chapter 7, "Analyzing Data Quantitatively" in Rosch,
Kniffen and Guthrie (2023).

‚úèÔ∏è Practice evaluating the quality of a quantitative study's analysis
and results, using the quality criteria discussed in¬†Rosch, Kniffen and
Guthrie (2023) to evaluate the quality of the data analysis and results.

‚úèÔ∏è In your learning journal, identify what your overall quality rating
is of this section and list three pieces of evidence to support your
rating. Make some notes about what you would look for in a high quality
"Analysis and Results" section of a quantitative research report.

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::
::::


# Summary {#header}

In Unit 5 we have explored quantitative research methods. We have
learned that the methods section indicates the **overall plan** for how
the research was conducted, how the data was collected, and what the
analysis of the data tells us. These sections of a research report are
called the research design, method, and analysis and results,
respectively. Coming up in unit 6 we will be looking at the methods and
results sections of qualitative research reports.

::: {#references-4 .section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
### References[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#references-4){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Bogdan, R., & Biklen, S. (2007). *Qualitative research for education: An
introduction to theories and method* (5th ed.). Boston, MA:

Pearson. Corbin, J., & Strauss, A. (2008). *Basics of qualitative
research* (3rd ed.). Los Angeles, CA: Sage.

Gall, M., Gall, J., & Borg, W. (2007). *Educational research*. Boston,
MA: Pearson.
:::

::: {.section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
:::

::: {.section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
Gill, J., & Johnson, P. (2002). Survey research design. In *Research
methods for managers* (3rd ed.) (pp.¬†97-122). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
:::

::: {.section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
:::

::: {.section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
Leedy, P., & Ormrod, J. (2010). *Practical research: Planning and
design* (9th ed.). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

Rosch,¬†D.¬†M.,¬†Kniffin,¬†L.¬†E.,¬†& Guthrie,¬†K.¬†L.¬†(2023).¬†*Introduction to
research in leadership*. Information Age Publishing.
:::


# Checking Your Learning {#header}

:::: {#checking-your-learning-4 .section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
###  [](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-quantitative-research-reports.html#checking-your-learning-4){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: progress
Now that you have completed the learning activities and assignments for
this unit, check the list below to see if you can do the following:

1.  Can you describe the differences between a quantitative and
    qualitative research report?
2.  Can you evaluate the research design, participants, data collection,
    analysis and results of a quantitative research report?
3.  Can you discuss the importance of understanding the methods and
    results section of a quantitative research report?

*Feel free to review topics more in depth or continue on to the next
unit.*
:::
::::


