---
ID: 6043
post_title: LDRS591/UNIT 3/ Blog
author: edenguessi
post_excerpt: 'My experience with APA style dated from my undergraduate years. As mentioned in a previous blog, I major in psychology and one of the requirements for many classes included writing essay papers following the APA style. Teachers expected us to master the annotated bibliography skills following the APA format. According to Strong (2018), Academic writings provides an opportunity for students<br><br><a href="https://create.twu.ca/edenguessi/2018/10/05/ldrs591-flow-unit-3-blog/">Read more</a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/edenguessi/2018/10/05/ldrs591-flow-unit-3-blog/
published: true
post_date: 2018-10-05 09:54:18
---
My experience with APA style dated from my undergraduate years. As mentioned in a previous blog, I major in psychology and one of the requirements for many classes included writing essay papers following the APA style. Teachers expected us to master the annotated bibliography skills following the APA format.

According to Strong (2018), Academic writings provides an opportunity for students to witness their work become &#8220;journal articles or books&#8221;(Para. 4), and professionally to contribute to the growth of their organization. Consequently, people in management such as myself and others often write reports after completing assigned projects. The quality of these reports often derived from careful and rich structures of writing such as the APA styles (APA, 2010), and their credibility arose from the references included. For instances, a document with a list of in-text citations and a reference page bring trust to the information provided by the author.<br />
Structure and credibility are not the only advantages of academic writing in the professional world. APA (2010), Hatala (2018), and Strong (2018) argue that academic writings provide clarity and conciseness which contribute to the understanding of a report in an organization setting.

Hatala (2018) reveals several mistakes made by students involved in academic practice. First the overused of the passive voice, second the verb tense used in sections, Third &#8221; the use of flowering writings&#8221; (Hatala, 2018. np). The previous assertion represents the challenge I face when it comes to academic writing because of having English as a second language. Thankfully, Hatala (2018) provides instructions I will use to remedy to the weaknesses. These instructions include peer review, writing partners, using google for synonyms, being factual, using editors.

What is the requirement in the APA style Dr. Strong would changed, and why?

Which types of Strategy Dr. Strong have used to become a good writer in the APA tradition?

What were Dr. Strong&#8217;s indicators of completion for her research paper?

On a scale of 10 where 0 is the lowest and 10 the highest, what was Dr. Strong degree of satisfaction after completing her research paper?

References<br />
American Psychological Association (2010). Publication manual of the American Psychological Association (6th ed.). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Hatala, M. (2018). Learn APA Style &#8211; Section 3.01-3.23 &#8211; Writing Clearly and Concisely. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BRu1UPPubMY

Strong, H. (2018). Unit 3 Learning Activities. Retrieved from https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591/unit-3-learning-activities/