---
ID: 6786
post_title: Unit 10
author: edenguessi
post_excerpt: 'Part A How can I know that I can trust what I am reading? According to Strong (2018) consumers of research must be concerned with competency, honesty, and consistency to develop trust in a research study. Several steps are essential to shed light on the above concerns. Strong (2018) suggests readers pay close attention to the peer-reviewed process which offers<br><br><a href="https://create.twu.ca/edenguessi/2018/11/23/unit-10/">Read more</a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/edenguessi/2018/11/23/unit-10/
published: true
post_date: 2018-11-23 08:42:31
---
<strong>Part A</strong>

<strong>How can I know that I can trust what I am reading?</strong>

According to Strong (2018) consumers of research must be concerned with competency, honesty, and consistency to develop trust in a research study. Several steps are essential to shed light on the above concerns. Strong (2018) suggests readers pay close attention to the peer-reviewed process which offers the guarantee of an author&#8217;s competency by ensuring the feasibility of a &#8221; formal presentation and publishing of research&#8221; (para. 4). Second, the sampling process with issues of representativity and generalizability, and the replicability of a study would highlight consistency across the field. Third, the biases caused by the dependence of an author and the lack of acknowledgment of personal and intellectual predisposition brought into research can reveal the level of honesty of a study.

<strong>Part B</strong>

<strong>Why do you think evidence-based decision making is essential for the Transformational Servant leader (TSL)? </strong>

Part A of this blog shed light on three essential values critical to TSL.<br />
<strong>Competency</strong>: TSL called leaders to develop Critical Thinking skills to grow in their competencies. I believe the process of recognizing, assessing, and evaluating research studies is one of the best ways to establish a CT mindset.<br />
<strong>Honesty</strong>: It is essential that followers trust information leaders provide . Therefore, a leader operating with a scholarly inquiry mindset is most likely to provide trustworthy information.<br />
<strong>Consistency</strong>: TSL called for leaders to be consistent in their approach about the quality of the data and decisions they provide. Thus scholarly inquiry offers a process enhancing consistency.

<strong>How will you use scholarly evidence in your leadership practice moving forward?</strong>

I will use scholarly evidence to filter the information coming to my knowledge as well as the source of the data I use to communicate to others. It means that I will always have credible voices to strengthen my arguments and the ability to dissect the credibility of the information I received.

References<br />
Strong, H. (2018). Unit 10 Learning Activities. Retrieved from https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591/unit-10-learning-activities/