---
ID: 3655
post_title: LDRS591, Unit 9, Learning Activity 9.2
author: Leona So
post_excerpt: 'Melchar and Bosco&rsquo;s (2014) study is evaluated based on Plano-Clark and Creswell&rsquo;s (2015) criteria for evaluating the conclusions and back matter in a research report below. Each criteria is rated on a three-point scale. The major results are identified and summarized (3/3) &ndash;&nbsp;The key results that confirmed the two hypotheses &ndash; mid-level managers exhibit servant &hellip; <p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/soleona/2018/03/01/ldrs591-unit-9-learning-activity-9-2/">Continue reading<span> "LDRS591, Unit 9, Learning Activity 9.2"</span></a></p>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/soleona/2018/03/01/ldrs591-unit-9-learning-activity-9-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-28 21:41:07
---
<p>Melchar and Bosco&#8217;s (2014) study is evaluated based on Plano-Clark and Creswell&#8217;s (2015) criteria for evaluating the conclusions and back matter in a research report below. Each criteria is rated on a three-point scale.</p>
<ol>
<li><strong>The major results are identified and summarized (3/3) &#8211; </strong>The key results that confirmed the two hypotheses &#8211; mid-level managers exhibit servant leadership &#8220;consistent with those of high-level leaders&#8221; (Melchar &amp; Bosco, p. 83, 2014) and there is a lack of differences between subjects based on education, age, and employment time &#8211; were clearly highlighted and focused. The summary of the data was logical and solely addressed the hypotheses without introducing new ideas.</li>
<li><strong>The results are thoughtfully examined in relation to the literature and personal reflections (1/3) &#8211; </strong>The discussion includes personal reflections well focused on the results and the implications of the quantitative data gathered. While there are suggestions of the study&#8217;s relation to prior literature about servant literature, Melchar and Bosco (2014) fail to explicitly relate prior research to their study. While this may be a fault of a lack of precedent literature, the complete lack of reference back to previous studies is unjustified.</li>
<li><strong>Appropriate implications of the results for practice are identified and justified (1/3) &#8211; </strong>Melchar and Bosco&#8217;s (2014) discussion discusses how &#8220;the highest means were in the areas of wisdom, organizational stewardship, and altruistic calling&#8221; (p. 84) and therefore suggests servant leaders to practice these three traits, but does not explicitly specify audiences that would benefit from this knowledge or explicitly provide suggestions based on its results.</li>
<li><strong>Thoughtful critiques of the study&#8217;s limitations are provided and appropriate for the research approach (3/3) &#8211; </strong>Melchar and Bosco (2014) provide adequate examples of their study&#8217;s limitations. Melchar and Bosco (2014) acknowledge their &#8220;results may not be generalizable to other types of for-profit environments&#8221; (p. 85) as they only examined one industry, and their sample size was also &#8220;somewhat small&#8221; (p. 85).</li>
<li><strong>Suitable implications of the results for future research are identified and justified (2/3) &#8211; </strong>The researchers suggest further research could be conducted to examine &#8220;the main components of servant leadership, particularly trust, valuing of others and ethical conduct&#8221; (Melchar &amp; Bosco, 2014, p. 85) which could &#8220;further expand important knowledge relation to employee empowerment and productivity&#8221; (p. 85) in other environments. While this suggestion builds on the limitations of this current study, there is a lack of relation between the study&#8217;s topic and the suggested further study.</li>
<li><strong>The interpretations are consistent with the study (2/3) &#8211; </strong>While the conclusions are drawn from the data logically and focuses on the two key hypotheses, further explanation of the findings and concluding themes would have been helpful.</li>
<li><strong>The back matter is appropriate for the study report (1/3) &#8211; </strong>The reference list provided is appropriate, but there is a lack of author notes and appendices. Providing examples of the questions asked in both the interviews and surveys would have benefited the readers&#8217; understanding of the study.</li>
</ol>
<p>References</p>
<p>Melchar, D. E., &amp; Bosco, S. M. (2010). Achieving High Organization Performance through Servant Leadership. <i>Journal Of Business Inquiry: Research, Education &amp; Application</i>, <i>9</i>(1), 74-88.</p>
<p>Plano-Clark, V., &amp; Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide</em> (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.</p>