---
ID: 3123
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 5.1
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'LDRS 591 Activity 5.1 Unit 5 Learning Activities Jenkins, M., &amp; Stewart, A. C. (2010). The importance of a servant leader orientation. Health Care Management Review, 35(1), 46-54. &nbsp; What quantitative research design is used and is it justified? This study used the survey research design. There was no manipulation of variables , hence this [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/01/28/ldrs-591-activity-5-1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-28 21:47:57
---
<p>LDRS 591 Activity 5.1</p>
<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="S5IOqlonON"><p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-5-learning-activities/">Unit 5 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>
<p><iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-5-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=S5IOqlonON" data-secret="S5IOqlonON" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 5 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe></p>
<p>Jenkins, M., &amp; Stewart, A. C. (2010). The importance of a servant leader orientation. Health Care Management Review, 35(1), 46-54.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>What quantitative research design is used and is it justified?</strong></p>
<p>This study used the survey research design. There was no manipulation of variables , hence this is a non-experimental study.The authors hypothesized that a manager&#8217;s commitment and role inversion behavior lead to higher servant orientation which in turn is associated with high employee job satisfaction. To study they surveyed a sample of nurses from a large health care system. The participants were provided 2 questionnaires about their perception of their department head, and another questionnaire about job satisfaction. As per Plano-Clark And Creswell (2015), in a survey research design a sample is selected to represent a larger population. I think this was an adequate model for this study which aimed to study the variable of employee satisfaction as related to servant leadership in nursing leadership. Score 3.</p>
<p><strong>Were good quantitative procedures used to select and assign participants?</strong></p>
<p>The participants were chosen from different departments of a large health care system. They invited nurses from 17 departments responsible for providing direct bedside care. The participants were ensured confidentiality. As the authors themselves mentioned in their discussion section, one limitation of the study was that the sample was drawn from one health care system on;y. This could potentially affect the generalizability of the results. Score 2</p>
<p><strong>Were good quantitative data collection procedures used?</strong></p>
<p>Participants were given a chance to submit their responses in person at staff meeting, or contact the researchers later. Score 3.</p>
<p><strong>Were good quantitative data analysis procedures used?</strong></p>
<p>Without in-depth knowledge of statistical tools, I think the data analysis procedures used were adequate. Score 3.</p>
<p><strong>Were good quantitative results and conclusions reported?</strong></p>
<p>The authors summarized the results in their discussion- &#8221; departments where staff perceived that managers had higher servant leadership orientation demonstrated significant positive impact on individual employee job satisfaction. &#8221; This is in line with their hypothesis. The authors pointed out the weaknesses of their study- one that the sample was taken from one health care system, and the second that the job satisfaction questionnaire was a general indicator, rather than addressing specific elements of the job. Score 2.</p>
<p><strong>Did the study use a rigorous study design?</strong></p>
<p>The article is well written and all the components flow in a coherent manner. Score 3.</p>
<p><strong>Did the quantitative research design address the study’s purpose?</strong></p>
<p>The results proved the authors&#8217; hypothesis. In their discussion and conclusion sections, the authors discuss in detail the implications and applicability of the results of their study. Score 3.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Reference</p>
<p>Plano-Clark, V., Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide. </em>(2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.</p>