---
ID: 2650
post_title: Learning Activity 1.1
author: jlkeith
post_excerpt: 'All teachers in the educational field have students who learn at different speeds and in different styles. It is important as an educator to try and accommodate each learning style in order to maximize the gain for each person. Occasionally I have students with rare medical conditions that need even further support that is more [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/jlkeith/learning-activity-1-1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-06 23:07:40
---
<p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-1-learning-activities/"></a></p>
<p>All teachers in the educational field have students who learn at different speeds and in different styles. It is important as an educator to try and accommodate each learning style in order to maximize the gain for each person. Occasionally I have students with rare medical conditions that need even further support that is more specific to them. While it may seem non-optional there are many teachers who feel they don’t have time to adapt every lesson for just one student and leave much of the research to educational assistants who are assigned to help certain students in the classroom. However, I made the decision in both the case I describe below and in ongoing situations to do my own research and take the time to implement adaptations as necessary. </p>
<p>When I taught in London I came across a challenging situation when I was given a student with William’s Syndrome. Being that there wasn’t much information in this file I was left to find whatever resources I could. I first began by consulting my sister Kristin who is an experienced doctor and my sister-in-law who is a pediatric nurse. All three of us went for coffee and discussed what William’s Syndrome is and its effects. This was done in order for me to get a basic understanding of the affliction. From them, I learned that William’s Syndrome is a mental disability that affects development and spatial awareness. Because of their developmental delays, they learn to read, write, speak, and walk at a much later and slower rate than average.</p>
<p>For my own evidence-based learning, I first looked at the most prominent researchers in this field. Through these resources, I found that while development in those with WS is significantly slower than most there are some incredible silver linings in their abilities as well. One study found that 100% of those with WS were kind spirited (Dykens, 1990). In tune with this, other findings suggested that the amygdala of a person with WS has a greater volume than the average person’s, this may be indicative of greater social awareness (Carrasco, 2010). Another study showed that children with WS show no racial biases (Santos, 2010). Essentially what this information was telling me was that while people with WS are lower in one area they clearly surpass in others.</p>
<p>Concerning the specific area of teaching students with WS, I found an amazing resource by Levine, Mervis, and Pegg. With this resource, I received a plethora of information not only for my lessons but my day-to-day interactions with the student as well. For instance, students with WS have a short attention span and so it was recommended that I include social games in my lessons (Levine, 2013). They also enjoy relaxation techniques such as yoga and calming music. In addition, to help them with reading and math is was recommended they wear noise-canceling headphones during quiet time in class.</p>
<p>While I could go on with the ways in which I adapted my lessons, the point I am trying to make is that without strong evidence-based research I would not have been able to properly lead my student with WS or other help staff in this area. </p>
<p>Sources</p>
<p>Carrasco, X., Castillo, S., Aravena, T., Rothhammer, P., &amp; Aboitiz, F. (2005). Williams Syndrome: Pediatric, Neurologic, &amp; Cognitive Development. Pediatric Neurology, 32(3), 166-167. Retrieved July 15, 2017, from http://repositorio.uchile.cl/bitstream/handle/2250/127156/Carrasco_X.pdf?sequence=1</p>
<p>Dykens, E. M., &amp; Rosner, B. A. (1999). Refining Behavioural Phenotypes: Personality, Motivation In Williams &amp; Prader-Willi Syndromes, 104(2), 158-169. Retrieved July 16, 2017, from https://my.vanderbilt.edu/pwsi/files/2011/11/Refining-behavioral-phenotypes-personality-motivation-in-williams-and-prader-willi-syndromes.pdf.</p>
<p>Levine, K., Mervis, C., &amp; Pegg, R. (2013). Information For Teachers: Strengths, Challenges &amp; Strategies For Working With Young Students With William Syndrome. Retrieved from https://williams-syndrome.org/sites/williams-syndrome.org/files/WSA%20Information%20for%20Teachers%202012.pdf</p>
<p>Santos, A., Meyer-Lindenberg, A., &amp; Deruelle, C. (2010). Absence of racial, but not gender, stereotyping in Williams syndrome children. Current Biology, 20(7), 307-308. Retrieved July 15, 2017, from http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960982210001442</p>
<div id="themify_builder_content-6" data-postid="6" class="themify_builder_content themify_builder_content-6 themify_builder">

    </div>
<!-- /themify_builder_content -->