---
ID: 2680
post_title: eBooks
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'Activity 2.4:&nbsp;https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591/unit-2-learning-activities/ This activity was more challenging that the previous, but also more fun and rewarding. Keeping in mind the questions I had posed to myself in the first assignment, I set out to research the connection between health and happiness. I started with keywords first, using &lsquo;happiness and &lsquo;satisfaction&rsquo; interchangeably. I abbreviated as mentioned [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/01/10/ebooks/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-10 21:27:33
---
<p>Activity 2.4: https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-2-learning-activities/</p>
<p>This activity was more challenging that the previous, but also more fun and rewarding. Keeping in mind the questions I had posed to myself in the first assignment, I set out to research the connection between health and happiness. I started with keywords first, using &#8216;happiness and &#8216;satisfaction&#8217; interchangeably. I abbreviated as mentioned in the video, adding a $ sign in the end. These searches yielded too many results, in excess of 200. Also , also a quick perusal of the first few titles of my research, did not seem relevant to my question either. I then decided to search using both keywords and subject. I used the keywords &#8216;healt$&#8217; and &#8216;happ$&#8217;, and the subject &#8216;psych$&#8217;, to cover both psychology and psychiatry. This resulted in a list of 25 books.  One of them was this book- &#8216;Positive psychology in racial and ethnic minority groups : theory, research, and practice.&#8217;</p>
<p>The author is Edward Chin-Ho Chang, and it was published in 2016.</p>
<p>Some excerpts from the summary of the book, &#8220;research in areas relevant to positive psychology, such as happiness, subjective well-being, and emotional intelligence, has been based on findings from largely White samples and has rarely taken the concerns of the ethnic community into consideration.&#8221;, &#8220;focuses on four main ethnic groups: Asian Americans, Latin Americans, African Americans, and American Indians&#8221;. The intended audience of this book could be vast- psychology, psychiatry, research, spirituality. Without having read the book, I am unable to comment if this could possibly be  self help book intended for the general public. Looking at the contents, I believe it is meant more as an academic read.</p>
<p>The last chapter, &#8216;Challenges and Prospects for Positive Psychology Research, Theory, Assessment, and Practice in a Multiracial and Multiethnic World&#8217;,  seems to be a call for further research. I hope it addresses weakness in their research or biases if any.</p>
<p>For this activity I found that the video tutorials were very helpful. After completing the activity i kept browsing and found some other books that I did not realise the library had. I am looking forward to reading them (someday!)</p>
<p>References</p>
<p>Video-&#8216;Searching for e-books in the classic catalogue&#8217;, https://vimeo.com/164163119/b24ecb42e6</p>
<p>Chang, E. C. (2016). Positive psychology in racial and ethnic minority groups: <span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #333333;cursor: text;font-family: 'Lato',Helvetica,sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px">theory, research, and practice.&#8217;</span> American Psychological Association. e-book.</p>