---
ID: 3150
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 5.2
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'LDRS 591 Activity 5.2 Unit 5 Learning Activities Jenkins, M., &amp; Stewart, A. C. (2010). The importance of a servant leader orientation. Health Care Management Review, 35(1), 46-54. &nbsp; What sampling strategy was used and was it justified? The authors used non probability purposive sampling. The purpose of the study was to determine relationship between [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/01/29/ldrs-591-activity-5-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-29 22:05:11
---
<p>LDRS 591 Activity 5.2</p>
<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="dFPdReJQAi"><p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-5-learning-activities/">Unit 5 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>
<p><iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-5-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=dFPdReJQAi" data-secret="dFPdReJQAi" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 5 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe></p>
<p>Jenkins, M., &amp; Stewart, A. C. (2010). The importance of a servant leader orientation. <em>Health Care Management Review, 35(1),</em> 46-54.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>What sampling strategy was used and was it justified?</strong></p>
<p>The authors used non probability purposive sampling. The purpose of the study was to determine relationship between nurse manager servant leadership orientation and nurse job satisfaction. Even though they collected data from nurses, I don&#8217;t think this can be generalized to all the nurses, as the participants in this study were selected from a single health care system. This could also be called convenience sampling. Score 2</p>
<p><strong>Is the sample size appropriate and justified?</strong></p>
<p>Of the available 346 nurse, only 210 provided the researchers complete information on their questionnaires. This number though not small, is not close to the sample size recommendation made by Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015) for a survey study (p. 238). I wonder what the researchers&#8217; reason was for collecting data from one health system only? Institutional affiliation is one possible explanation. Score 2</p>
<p><strong>Are good quality measures used to gather data? How do you know they are good quality?</strong></p>
<p>The measures ( instruments) used to collect data were good quality, as the authors reported that the Cronbach&#8217;s alpha score was 0.80 for one of the questionnaires and 0.72 for the other. Score 3.</p>
<p><strong>Are the data gathered using ethical procedures?</strong></p>
<p>There is no evidence that the authors obtained organizational approval. They did assure confidentiality to the participants. Since this was a non interventional study, no harm seems to have been done to the participants. Score 2.</p>
<p><strong>Are the data gathered using standardized quantitative procedures? </strong></p>
<p>All participants were provided the same questionnaires, which were of high quality. Participants were informed about the purpose of the study. Score 3.</p>
<p><strong>Does the study have a high level of internal validity?</strong></p>
<p>The authors controlled for gender, ethnicity and the participants self reported score on their most recent performance evaluation. Score 3</p>
<p><strong>Does the study have a high level of external validity?</strong></p>
<p>The researchers restricted their sample to one health care system. I think this is a big weakness of their study, as this reduces the external validity of their research. Further, their sample size was only 210. Score 1.</p>
<p>Total score 16. Adequate quality study.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Reference</p>
<p>Plano-Clark, V., Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide</em>. (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.</p>