---
ID: 6109
post_title: Unit 2 – Blog
author: kwantlenbrenda
post_excerpt: 'Unit 2 Blog Part A While considering the research question &ldquo;What is the best model of indigenous economic development that will help build a healthy and thriving community&rdquo; the following challenges were identified: Currently there is little information available to First Nations on what are best practices when it comes to creating economic development entities &hellip; <p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/kwantlenbrenda/2018/10/11/unit-2-blog/">Continue reading<span> "Unit 2 &ndash; Blog"</span></a></p>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/kwantlenbrenda/2018/10/11/unit-2-blog/
published: true
post_date: 2018-10-11 16:13:11
---
Unit 2 Blog

Part A

While considering the research question “What is the best model of indigenous economic development that will help build a healthy and thriving community” the following challenges were identified:

<ul>
<li>Currently there is little information available to First Nations on what are best practices when it comes to creating economic development entities in Canada. Some entities are focused on creating economic wealth through rights and title while others are focused on capacity building or both. Within Canada many First Nations are also only now, starting up economic development companies and so scarce sources are available thus explaining why little research has been conducted.</li>
<li>While researching, it was necessary to broaden the search to include “<em>tribal</em> indigenous economic development” as in the U.S.A., the word tribal is more widely used. Also due to a government decision allowing indigenous communities in the U.S.A to open gaming on reserves, many nations have been participating in successful businesses ventures for a longer period of time. This has resulted in more sources of scholarly information published in the U.S.A.</li>
<li>While searching some specific journal and article sources, specifically targeting indigenous topics, a number of indigenous driven organizations were found. An example is the UCLA American Indian studies center which may prove to be an excellent source of information in the future.</li>
</ul>

Part B

The following is an evaluation of a journal called “Realizing the Potential: Global Perspectives on Indigenous Economic Development” related to the targeted research question in Part A:

Author – The Author is Canada’s public policy forum. The public policy forum is a non-profit indicating that its purpose is to improve the quality of government through dialogue. In evaluating any one specific author, it was not indicated and so it required further investigation as to whom the forum was made up of. The forum participant names listed appeared to be mainly from industry as opposed to being identified as indigenous participants. That said each participant was not identified as indigenous or non-indigenous specifically. It was from company or job titles only that it could be surmised that a participant was indigenous. For example one participant was listed as a Chief.

Currency – The article was published in May of 2014 and so moderately current.

Purpose &#8211; Not clearly stated however upon reading the information it became apparent that the purpose was to educate businesses wanting to forward projects in the traditional territories of First nations, by providing guidance on approaches. Also it was intended to encourage businesses, in particular in the resource sector, to establish joint ventures and or support other indigenous economic development.

Publication type/process – The publication I would classify as an article and not scholarly in nature. The publication was the outcome of a public forum and based on the opinions of the forum participants. The article was not peer reviewed.

Biases – Project partners included oil and gas companies as well as resource extraction companies. Listed also as forum participants included representatives from these groups. The title of the article is perhaps misleading as it might lead one to believe that the ideas are presented as options that might be of value to indigenous communities involved in economic development. However given the lack of indigenous participants and the project partners core business activities, this article does not factor or consider a comprehensive indigenous perspective.

References

<em>Realizing the potential : global perspectives indigneous on economic development</em>. (2014). Ottawa, Ontario : Canada’s Public Policy Forum, [2014]. Retrieved from <a href="https://ezproxy.student.twu.ca/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&amp;db=cat05965a&amp;AN=alc.1353928&amp;site=eds-live">https://ezproxy.student.twu.ca/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&amp;db=cat05965a&amp;AN=alc.1353928&amp;site=eds-live</a>

Part C

In considering what sources of information are needed to conduct research on the question, “What is the best model of indigenous economic development that will help build a healthy and thriving community”, it is apparent that there is minimal scholarly information available on the topic. This has required creativity in searching for key words as well as broadening the search to worldwide sources such as Australia and the United States. The research will to require local surveys and interviews from local indigenous communities as well as industry professionals. The web is also a source for consideration as legislation requires indigenous communities to post audited financial statements. These financial statements will not necessarily answer research questions specifically but will point to indigenous communities that can be targeted for survey’s or interviews.

In consideration of a research question where there is difficulty in locating scholarly sources, does one give up on a topic one is passionate about and is seeking answers for, or is it better to get excited about the topic and take on the challenge?