---
ID: 6181
post_title: Unit 7
author: kwantlenbrenda
post_excerpt: 'Part A What is at the heart of the quantitative/qualitative debate? Quantitative research is a numerical process to understand a research question while qualitative research is investigating personal experiences to gain a better understanding of a problem. Both when done by applying a scientific approach, ensure biases do not come into play. The research question &hellip; <p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/kwantlenbrenda/2018/11/03/unit-7/">Continue reading<span> "Unit 7"</span></a></p>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/kwantlenbrenda/2018/11/03/unit-7/
published: true
post_date: 2018-11-03 08:54:09
---
<p><strong>Part A</strong></p>
<p><em>What is at the heart of the quantitative/qualitative debate?</em></p>
<p>Quantitative research is a numerical process to understand a research question while qualitative research is investigating personal experiences to gain a better understanding of a problem. Both when done by applying a scientific approach, ensure biases do not come into play. The research question will help determine which type of study is better suited. In recent years mixed methods have been combined to gain an even greater understanding of the problem. Appropriate methods in conducting mixed method research papers are now available and widely accepted amongst the scholarly community. The argument that now exists is if quantitative research or qualitative research on its own provides a comprehensive understanding of a problem and or if combined provide a more complete picture.</p>
<p><em>Do you think mixed-methods research can provide a more complete picture for leadership studies?  </em></p>
<p>I believe that yes mixed methods of research can provide a more complete picture for leadership studies. For example in my own experience, both the economy and capacity building are equally important to First Nation communities and so in understanding the best leadership style to promote this type of environment, it is clear that a mixed method research paper would provide a greater understanding. Quantitative data on indigenous leadership could be measured by exploring the financial success of an indigenous community and how this relates to leadership styles. Qualitative data on indigenous leadership could be measured by focus groups targeting the answers such as how has past traditional teachings been utilized by leadership, what are the investments in training that are seen as valued, how does a community best build capacity and what is the community doing to help people that are disadvantaged. Organizations are complex and have often more than one goal or strategic mandate and therefore, this is where I believe mixed methods are beneficial to leadership studies.</p>
<p><strong>Part B</strong></p>
<p>Evaluating the use of mixed method approach in the article called <em>Achieving High Organizational Performance through Servant Leadership</em> (Melchar &amp; Bosco, 2010)</p>
<ol>
<li>The rationale for needing mixed methods of research is appropriate and justified – Rating 3 – the researchers determined that qualitative interviews were necessary prior to proceeding with a quantitative questionnaire, …in order to determine whether there were main themes that reflected the senior leader’s “servant leader” orientation (Melchar &amp; Bosco, 2010, p. 80).</li>
<li>The choice of the mixed methods design is appropriate and justified – Rating 3 – the researchers describe how qualitative interviews are researched as well as the results of the surveys, how the surveys were interpreted and what method was used to interpret the surveys.</li>
<li>The quantitative methods are of good quality based on the standards of quantitative research – Rating 3 – while the sample size was somewhat small, the researchers indicated in their conclusion that …the coefficient alphas were consistent with those in the Barbuto and Wheeler (2006) study. Good statistical analytic procedures were used and described in the reference paper.</li>
<li>The qualitative methods are of good quality based on the standards of qualitative research – Rating 3 – the qualitative method and results were shared in a table. These results were consistent with former research in evaluating traits of servant leaders. There researchers goals were to confirm that the leadership had traits of servant leadership.</li>
<li>The quantitative and qualitative components of the study are meaningfully mixed – Rating 3 – If the researchers did not conduct qualitative research prior to the quantitative research, the results of the quantitative research may have been questioned.</li>
<li>The study used rigorous application of mixed methods research to address the purpose – Rating 3 – the research paper purpose was to investigate …whether a servant leader can develop a corporate culture that attracts tor develops other servant leaders (Melchar &amp; Bosco, 2010, P. 74). The qualitative data was used to confirm servant leadership management style as opposed to other types of leadership styles. Once confirmed the organization did possess a servant leadership style the quantitative data sought to understand if the servant leader developed and attracted other servant leaders.</li>
<li>The use of mixed methods produced a good understanding of the research purpose – Rating 3 – the researchers did provide serval complete and valid in-depth answers to the study’s research question.</li>
</ol>
<p>Overall score 21/21 indicating a high quality research paper.</p>
<p><strong>Part C</strong></p>
<p><em>Describe an example of a Transformational Servant Leader in your life.</em></p>
<p>In my indigenous community I have many examples of transformational servant leaders. As a group I would describe the elders as transformational servant leaders. Our elders form part of our government and guide us in business activities. They heavily influence and support change in the community for future generations. Many of these elders have experienced inter-generational trauma and in their lifetime will never likely see the results of their work in instilling change in the community. The elders support the youth in education, mentorship, family life and remind younger generations about the importance of taking care of others and mother earth. They remind us to use our traditional teachings such as following the 7 laws of life – health, happiness, humbleness, generations, generosity, forgiveness and understanding. These laws help guide our business group in making important decisions for the future our community. They put others needs above their own and are impacting important change for my community.</p>
<p><em>How would you use a mixed methods approach to study servant leadership?</em></p>
<p>I would utilize a mixed method approach in studying servant leadership through an exploratory sequential design. Relative to my workplace, and in evaluating servant leadership in an indigenous setting, quantitative data could be utilized to evaluate servant leadership through data that could be collected, evaluating past successes of indigenous organizations. Qualitative data however is also important in understanding the future of servant leadership and its role in indigenous communities. There is an emergence of traditional teachings that align with servant leadership however since much of indigenous culture teachings were not shared or spoken of amongst generations, there has been a gap in information. As culture teachers become more readily available and accepted in communities, so does the concept of servant leadership become accepted as a best model for leadership.</p>
<p>In past research, quantitative research has been held in higher regard than qualitative research in terms of its ability to provide more perceived credible results. Do you think a mixed method approach provides more validity to the importance also of qualitative research and its findings?</p>
<p>References</p>
<p>Barbuto, J. e., and D.W. Wheeler. 2006. “Scale Development and construct Clarification of Servant Leadership.” <em>Group &amp; Organization Management</em>, 31(3): 300-326.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Melchar, D. E., &amp; Bosco, S. M. (2010). Achieving high organization performance through servant leadership. <em>Journal of Business Inquiry, 9</em>(1), 774-88.</p>