---
ID: 6146
post_title: Unit 6
author: kwantlenbrenda
post_excerpt: 'Part A Evaluation of the Research Design for the research paper, The Influence of Servant Leadership on Restaurant Employee Engagement (Carter &amp; Baghurst, 2014): A research design guides the conduct of the qualitative study &ndash; Rating 3 &ndash; the researchers cited a substantial amount of literature. The researchers utilized a phenomenology design. The choice of &hellip; <p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/kwantlenbrenda/2018/10/27/unit-6/">Continue reading<span> "Unit 6"</span></a></p>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/kwantlenbrenda/2018/10/27/unit-6/
published: true
post_date: 2018-10-26 17:02:26
---
<p><strong>Part A</strong></p>
<p>Evaluation of the Research Design for the research paper, <em>The Influence of Servant Leadership on Restaurant Employee Engagement </em>(Carter &amp; Baghurst, 2014):</p>
<ol>
<li>A research design guides the conduct of the qualitative study – Rating 3 – the researchers cited a substantial amount of literature. The researchers utilized a phenomenology design.</li>
<li>The choice of the research design is appropriate and justified – Rating 3 – the choice of the research design is appropriate. Utilizing a phenomenology design is a good approach toward answering the research question.</li>
<li>Good qualitative data collection procedures are used – Rating 3 – the researchers utilized a focus group for the collection of data and previous company survey results.</li>
<li>Good qualitative data analysis procedures are used Rating 3 – The researchers utilized a 7 step process to analyse the data.</li>
<li>Good qualitative results and interpretations are reported – Rating 3 – The researchers reported the focus groups results as well as grouped participants when comments were similar in nature.</li>
<li>The study used a rigorous research design – Rating 3 – the researchers included and built on former knowledge, referencing prior research as well as prior processes.</li>
<li>The use of the qualitative research design addressed the study’s purpose – Rating 3 – the study fulfilled the intent and answers the research question.</li>
</ol>
<p>Overall Quality of the research is high with a score of 21/21</p>
<p><strong>Part B</strong></p>
<p>Evaluation of the participants and data collection procedures for the research paper <em>The Influence of Servant Leadership on Restaurant Employee Engagement</em> (Carter &amp; Baghurst, 2014)</p>
<ol>
<li>The sampling strategy is appropriate and justified – Rating 3 – the researchers conducted the focus group in a designated area the employees were comfortable with and was convenient. The researchers provided references to previous studies that indicated that it was justified. They also provided references regarding other best practices such as confidentiality agreements and length of time the focus group was convened.</li>
<li>The sample size is appropriate and justified – Rating 3 – The researchers had a small group with relevant experience. The group was further reduced by creating two separate focus groups.</li>
<li>The data types are appropriate – Rating 3 – the data types were appropriate.</li>
<li>The data are gathered using rigorous qualitative procedures – Rating 3 – the researchers utilize open ended questions to encourage dialogue in the group.</li>
<li>Data collection issue are handled ethically and thoughtfully – Rating 3 – the researchers ensured the participants had the opportunity to sign a confidentiality agreement and ensured the names of the participants would not be included in the final research report.</li>
<li>The selected participants are information rich – Rating 3 &#8211; Employees included in the survey had a minimum of 5 years’ experience working at a restaurant that was recognized for servant leadership.</li>
<li>The database provides extensive and credible information about the central phenomenon – Rating 3 – the findings included extensive information about the focus group, what questions were asked, responses, common themes, etc.</li>
</ol>
<p>Overall rating 21/21 – High Quality</p>
<p><strong>Part C</strong></p>
<p>Evaluation of the data analysis and findings for the research paper <em>The Influence of Servant Leadership on Restaurant Employee Engagement</em> (Carter &amp; Baghurst, 2014)</p>
<ol>
<li>The analysis process used rigorous qualitative procedures – Rating 3 – the researchers documented, recorded and transcribed comments from the focus group. The researchers also found common themes and followed a 7 step process to analyse the data.</li>
<li>Strategies were used to validate the findings – Rating 3 – as part of the 7 step process in evaluating the data the researchers clustered core themes, identified invariant constituents.</li>
<li>The findings include a description of the people, places, or events in the study – Rating 3 – the researchers describe the participants and why they were appropriate to participate in the focus groups.</li>
<li>The findings include appropriate themes about the central phenomenon – Rating 3 – 5 themes were reported.</li>
<li>The findings relate multiple themes to each other – Rating 3 – the researchers reported the relationship amongst the themes.</li>
<li>That data analysis represents a good qualitative process – Rating 3 – the data analysis was credible and accurate results were gathered.</li>
<li>The findings provide a good exploration of the central phenomenon – Rating 3 – the findings provided information for discussion, suggestions to further research and a conclusion.</li>
</ol>
<p>Overall assessment is 21/21 High Quality</p>
<p><strong>Part D</strong></p>
<p>As a consumer of research reports the most important aspects one needs to consider in the methods and results section of a high-quality <strong>qualitative</strong> research report include:</p>
<ul>
<li>The researchers share the method they used to obtain the results.</li>
<li>There is a clear description of the overall design.</li>
<li>Researchers provide details on participants and why they were considered qualified.</li>
<li>Information in the literature includes how the data was collected and analyzed.</li>
</ul>
<p>Elements of this section that raise questions and may be confusing:</p>
<p>While evaluating the participants and data collection I was confused by what is meant by data types. I&#8217;m looking for more information on data types utilized in qualitative research.</p>
<p>How can you apply this knowledge to your work context or current leadership experience?</p>
<p>In my current role, I can see a qualitative research report being of considerable value. As a leader in an indigenous organization, there is not a great deal of research conducted on indigenous economic development in Canada. Many First Nations are new to economic development and work closely with their lands and resources department on rights and title issues. As the rights and title legal climate is constantly changing, so too is the economic development front and therefore indigenous businesses need to quickly adapt. One unique approach my company has taken is to maintain a strategic mandate despite the current legal climate. The approach is to operate the business in a humble way, and to stick to key principles such as capacity building. By doing so my company has built a very unique operation that is not found amongst many other nations. At this point in time my nation is receiving interest from other nations, banks, lawyers and others working in the field of indigenous economic development, to better understand our business model. I do believe it is a business model that can be shared with other nations that are struggling to get economic development off the ground. Recently I’ve been in discussions with a researcher whom is interested in studying our business model and I believe a qualitative research report would be the most appropriate, given the lack of literature available on the topic. I now feel more confident and better equipped to work with the researchers to develop a study on our business model. It will also be interesting to not let my biases slip in, but will look to the experienced researchers to implement methods to prevent this from happening.</p>
<p>My question to my classmates I am curious to know is, how you too might have managed your biases when participating in a qualitative research study or when reading a qualitative study?</p>
<p>References</p>
<p>Danon Carter, &amp; Timothy Baghurst. (2014). The Influence of Servant Leadership on Restaurant Employee Engagement. <em>Journal of Business Ethics</em>, (3), 453. https://ezproxy.student.twu.ca:2420/10.1007/s10551-013-1882-0</p>