---
ID: 5997
post_title: LDRS 591/Blog/ Unit 2
author: edenguessi
post_excerpt: 'My experience searching through the Journal databases was mixed with emotion. First, I felt comfortable locating databases from the Trinity Library. The search with my keywords (servant leadership, transformational leadership, good governance, and Cameroon) happened to be normal. The criteria included journaled articles, peer reviews, full text, 2008-2018. The articles I received and the selection&hellip;'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/edenguessi/2018/09/22/unit-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-09-22 16:46:38
---
My experience searching through the Journal databases was mixed with emotion. First, I felt comfortable locating databases from the Trinity Library. The search with my keywords (servant leadership, transformational leadership, good governance, and Cameroon) happened to be normal. The criteria included journaled articles, peer reviews, full text, 2008-2018.
The articles I received and the selection process proved to be difficult. First of all, I was discouraged to find out that few items appeared when I combined the keywords using the and, or, not skills ( Badke, 2017). In contrast, the search generated more results when I inserted the keyword words into the library front page search domain. From there, I received numerous articles relevant to my topics, and I selected them according to the parameters listed above. The process provided 18 Journal articles.
I also looked for books in the library search using the ebook as the format, and Cameroon, good Gov$, the search provided 12 books, but four made the selection because of their closeness with the Keywords. They were added to a list, and a summary of the content emailed.

Part 2

I chose to investigate
Parolini, J., Patterson, K., &amp; Winston, B. (2009). Distinguishing between transformational and servant leadership. Leadership &amp; Organization Development Journal,30(3), 274-291. doi:10.1108/01437730910949544

Dr. Kathleen Patterson and Dr. Bruce Winston are distinguished faculty members at the Regent Universities; They direct Ph.D. and doctorate programs and are members of several publication boards. Their names are affiliated to numerous publications, and they have authored significant amount of articles, reviews, and books. They earned several individual distinctions in the area of leadership studies and are worldwide recognized ( Faculty, 2018 ). Jeanine Palonini received a Ph.D. in organizational leadership from Regent University, She exerts as a coach, consultant, lecturer, and professor ( Jeanine Parolini Consulting, 2018) The purpose of the study was to segregate servant leadership from transformational leadership; the study is relevant to leadership, organizations, and academia. The article dates to 2009, and it is a research paper which was published by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. No apparent biases were identified in the articles; although It might be worthwhile to note that all the authors ascribe to the Christian faith and have taught in faith-based University.

Part 3

I agree with Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell (2015) who suggested using Journals articles from ” academic libraries and electronics databases” (p. 127) as a starting point. I will follow by refining my research topics using criteria or key terms such as and, or, not. Furthermore, I will select only Peer review articles and limiting the years of publication to the last 10 years. Then I will evaluate the selected articles in regards to their authorship, publishing body, the point of view, connection to the literature, verifiability, and currency. (Mc Burney and White, 2010).
When it comes to Web content, I will tend to restrict myself to government sites, and international organization; If I have to visit youtube, personal websites, and blogs, I will carefully look for authorship’s credibility, agenda, biases, and sponsorship (Strong, 2018).

Would you prioritize research about first nations people done by local authors over the same topic done by outside researchers? What are the advantages and inconveniences of either choice?

References

Badke, W. (2017). Research strategies: Finding your way through the information fog (6th ed.). Bloomington, IN: iUniverse.

Faculty | School of Business &amp; Leadership | Regent University. (2018). Retrieved from https://www.regent.edu/school-of-business-and-leadership/faculty/

Jeanine Parolini Consulting – Developing Principled Leaders and Learning Organizations. (2018). Retrieved from http://www.jeanineparolini.com

Mc Burney, D. H. &amp; White, T. L. (2010). Research Methods (8th ed). Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.

Plano Clark, V. L. &amp; Creswell, J. W. (2015). Understanding Research: A Consumer’s Guide. (2 ed). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson.

Strong, H. (2018). Unit 2 Learning Activities. Retrieved from https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591/unit-2-learning-activities/