# Overview {#header}

In Unit 2, we will focus on gaining familiarity with various genres of
scholarly literature, getting a sense of how these genres contribute to
your own scholarly endeavours. Through first-hand experience you will
begin locating, organizing and evaluating relevant scholarly literature.
Two of the major assignments in this course hinge on your ability to
conduct a review of precedent literature. Although these assignments are
not due until the later in this course, our work in Unit 2 is the
foundation for those assignments.

::: {#topics-1 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Topics[](https://learn.twu.ca/accessing-and-evaluating-scholarly-literature.html#topics-1){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Unit 2 is divided into 3 topics:

1.  Accessing Scholarly Literature

2.  Utilizing Scholarly Literature

3.  Evaluating scholarly literature
:::

::: {#learning-outcomes-1 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Learning Outcomes[](https://learn.twu.ca/accessing-and-evaluating-scholarly-literature.html#learning-outcomes-1){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

When you have completed this unit you should be able to:

1.  Employ different search strategies to locate different sources of
    scholarly literature.
2.  Evaluate the credibility and reliability of sources of scholarly
    literature.
3.  Document and synthesize key sources connecting them with the
    research question and topic area.
:::

::: {#activity-checklist-1 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Activity Checklist[](https://learn.twu.ca/accessing-and-evaluating-scholarly-literature.html#activity-checklist-1){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Here is a checklist of learning activities you will benefit from in
completing this unit. You may find it useful for planning your work.

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Learning Activities**                                               |
+=======================================================================+
| **Activity:** Watch the video on accessing scholarly literature. Read |
| Chapters 2 and 4 in the Frederikson & Phelps text. Watch the tutorial |
| "                                                                     |
|                                                                       |
| :::::: iframe                                                         |
| ::::: content                                                         |
| ::: {#turnstile-wrapper .hidden}                                      |
| :::                                                                   |
|                                                                       |
| :::                                                                   |
| :::::                                                                 |
| ::::::                                                                |
|                                                                       |
| . Follow the directions on searching for books through the TWU        |
| Library                                                               |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Activity:** Watch the videos on how to develop research skills      |
| avsilsblr through the following links                                 |
| https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsS6b8y\_\_W4;                        |
| https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bZ122WakNDY                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                       |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Assessment:** Contribute to the course discussions. See Assessment  |
| tab in Moodle for details.                                            |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Assessment:** Complete Assignment #1: Clarifying Your Research      |
| Interest.                                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: {#resources-1 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Resources[](https://learn.twu.ca/accessing-and-evaluating-scholarly-literature.html#resources-1){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Here are the resources you will need to complete the unit:

-   Video tutorials found at:
    [http://libguides.twu.ca/library_research/home](http://libguides.twu.ca/library_research/home){target="_blank"}
:::


# Accessing Scholarly Literature {#header}

In this unit you will be exploring the topic "Accessing and Evaluating
Scholarly Literature". This unit will help you gain familiarity with
various genres of scholarly literature and help you get a sense of what
scholarly sources of information are available, given your own research
interests. In this unit you will also gain first-hand experience in
locating and organizing and evaluating relevant scholarly literature.

The learning activities in this unit will walk you through some very
practical readings and video tutorials on how to access and evaluate
scholarly literature. Let's begin!

Accessing scholarly literature can be a frustrating process. The key is
to start at the beginning with a good plan and keep yourself organized.
Organizing tools are important both to streamline your literature search
and to summarize and synthesize. As you begin your literature search
(library books, online periodicals, internet search), organize your
search into general topic areas and more specific keywords. It is very
helpful to have some sense of the various fields that will potentially
inform your research interests.

Part of your planning and organizing is to recognize various genres of
scholarly literature and to be aware of the limitations inherent to
each.

There are three different categories of documents where you can find
research reports: summaries and books, journal articles and early stage
materials such as conference presentations. Many times you will see this
sequence followed: A research project is completed, and the research is
first published in a Mater's thesis or PhD dissertation, or as a paper
in a symposium or conference. The research report then goes to a
professional journal for publication and eventually it is incorporated
into a book. By the time a dissertation is successfully defended, the
actual research may have been conducted two to three years earlier. It
could easily take another three years for a journal article to make it
through the peer-review process and be published. Therefore, the
research referenced in the journal article could be at least five years
old. It could easily take another five years for high quality publishers
to work through their review processes and publish something in a book.
Obviously, what you lose in this process is cutting edge thought.

The chart below summarizes the relative advantages and disadvantages of
each genre of scholarly literature. You can refer to Plano-Clark and
Creswell (2015) pages 10-12 for more details.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Genre             Advantages        Disadvantages     Utility
  ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
  Summaries         Generally highest Tend to be dated. Establish a
  (encyclopedias    quality.                            general working
  and handbooks)                                        knowledge of the
                                                        field.

  Books             Generally high    Can be dated.     Establish
                    quality.                            mainstream
                                                        thought. Most
                                                        foundational
                                                        literature is
                                                        found in books.

  Journal Articles  Generally high    Generally will    Best available
                    quality.\*        not give a full   balance between
                    Provide a clear   development of    quality and
                    description of    application and   currency.
                    actual research.  implications.     
                    Generally more                      
                    current than                        
                    books or                            
                    summaries.                          

  Early stage       Most current      Little review for Valuable for
  materials         cutting edge      quality (except   establishing
  (conference       ideas are found   for               trends in current
  papers,           here.             dissertations).   thought. Use
  dissertations,                      Ideas are not     cautiously.
  newspapers,                         usually well      
  personal websites                   developed.        
  etc.)                                                 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

::: caution
**Note:** High quality journals are determined by the peer review
process, the journals impact factor (IF) and by professional reputation.
The impact factor is a measure of the frequency with which the average
article in a journal has been cited in a particular year. The IF is used
to measure the importance or rank of a journal by calculating the times
its articles are cited. The IF can be found on the home page of most
online journals.

Peer review is the process used by publishers and editors of
academic/scholarly journals to ensure that the articles they publish
meet the accepted standards of their discipline. Manuscripts being
considered for publication are sent to independent experts in the same
field (the author's scholarly or scientific peers). They evaluate the
quality of the scholarship, reliability of findings, relevance to the
field, appropriateness for the journal, etc.

Rosch, Kniffen, and Guthrie (2023) provide useful tip sregarding what
sources of literature you should access. They suggest discovering your
purpose through what you observe in daily life,  identifying p\[ractical
issues, past and current research, and becoming  aware of significant
theories in the broader field of study (p. 41). As a general rule,
articles published within the past 10 years should give you a good idea
of what is current in your profession.
:::


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-watch-read-and-search-for-journal-articles .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="2.1.1"}
### Watch, Read, and Search for Journal Articles

::: reflect
📖 Read [chapters 13 and 14 in the Rosch, Kniffin & Guthrie
(2023)](https://press.rebus.community/literaturereviewsedunursing) text.
These two chapters discuss \'Becoming a critical scholar\' and \'A
lifetime of learning in leadership.\'

📺 Watch the tutorial "[ ]{.mediaplugin .mediaplugin_vimeo}".

Click on the library link ["How to search for
articles.](http://libguides.twu.ca/library_research/articles)" Begin by
selecting one of video tutorials in the section on multi-disciplinary
databases such as [ ]{.mediaplugin .mediaplugin_vimeo} Watch the video
tutorial to get an idea of how to search for a topic in a
multi-disciplinary database.

📖 Keeping in mind the topic and specific question(s) you identified in
Assignment 1, use the Academic Search Ultimate database at the TWU
library to locate a good example of a **journal article**. To do this
you will need to:

1.  Go to the TWU [library home
    page](https://www.twu.ca/library){target="_blank"}.
2.  In the first search window, click the databases tab and then click
    the articles and databases link which brings you to a different
    screen.
3.  In the Database Guide screen you will need to select "A-B" from the
    A-Z list of databases at the bottom of this page.
4.  The first database that appears on the next screen is "Academic
    Search Ultimate." Select this database.
5.  You will be asked to sign in as a student with your pass ID and
    password to access the online database.
6.  Once you have signed in, then you will be able to type your topic or
    question in the search window of "Academic Search Ultimate."

**Searching for Books**

1.  Go to [TWU library
    homepage](http://libguides.twu.ca/library_research/home){target="_blank"}
    and click "[How to search for
    books](http://libguides.twu.ca/library_research/books){target="_blank"}".
2.  Begin by selecting one of video tutorials in the section "searching
    for e-books" such as "[searching for e-books in the classic
    catalogue](https://player.vimeo.com/video/239662524){target="_blank"}."
    Watch the video tutorial to get an idea of how to search for a topic
    found in an e-book.
3.  Keeping in mind the topic and specific question(s) you identified in
    Assignment 1, use the library catalog to locate a good example of an
    **e-book.**

✏️ Answer the questions for this learning activity in your reflective
learning journal.

-   Briefly describe your experiences in the search for a journal and an
    e-book, what worked well, what did not, what key search terms did
    you use, what databases did you search?

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::
::::


# Utilizing Scholarly Literature {#header}

After you have determined what sources you will be accessing, you need
to conduct a search, and then keep track of your literature search
strategy and results. The simplest way to do this is to use an online
reference manager that will help you collect, organize, cite and share
your references according to the referencing style you will be using.
There are several free, online reference managers available such as
[Refworks](https://www.refworks.com/refworks2/help/Welcome.htm),
[Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/){target="_blank"}, and
[EndNote](http://endnote.com/). TWU library has a research guide that
describes [how to use
EndNote](http://libguides.twu.ca/EndNote/){target="_blank"}. This
library guide will help you sign up for an EndNote account and also help
you figure out how to use EndNote to download and store your citations
in folders and then input citations into Word documents and create
reference lists.

After you have retrieved the results from your database searches and
organized them in folders in your reference manager, you need to select
documents to review. Begin by reviewing the titles and abstracts. For
those articles that you deem worthwhile, skim the article itself to
determine if it is relevant to your topic. Read the introduction and
literature review and examine the reference list.

As you collect relevant literature you can either enter it into a
summary chart or just collect the abstracts. There is no single correct
way to do this---but you will need to develop some sort of system that
works for you. An example of a summary chart is provided below:

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Category                            Description
  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  Reference                           Cite full reference in APA (6th
                                      edition) format for a reference
                                      list.

  Research Problem                    Describe the research problem and
                                      relevant background information.
                                      Include page references for both
                                      your summaries and direct
                                      quotations.

  Purpose, Research question or       Describe the purpose, research
  Hypothesis                          question and hypothesis. Include
                                      page references for summaries and
                                      quotations.

  Data Collection/Procedure           Describe how the researcher
                                      collected data. What participants
                                      did they use? What measures did
                                      they use? What method was used?

  Results/Findings                    Describe the results or findings.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

The research process is not always linear. You may have a great research
question or research topic in mind, but as you begin your initial
database and library searches you may find yourself changing or refining
your topic. Sometimes you will not find any information on the topic you
have chosen because the topic is so new and no one has done any research
on the topic yet. Sometimes you will not find any information on the
topic you have chosen because you are not using the right search terms
or keywords.

If you are having difficulty finding research articles and books on your
topic then try to re-examine the keywords you are using for your search.
Look up synonyms for your keywords and try to find the terms that are
used in the research literature. Another helpful tip is to look at the
reference list of any articles or books that seem closest to your topic.
This can help you to see what sources other authors have used and can be
a helpful strategy to track down articles and books on your topic.


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-read-watch-and-reflect .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="2.2.1"}
### Read, Watch and Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/accessing-and-evaluating-scholarly-literature.html#learning-activity-read-watch-and-reflect){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: reflect
📖 Begin this learning activity by reading [Chapter 6 of the
Fredericksen and Phelps (n.d.)
text](https://press.rebus.community/literaturereviewsedunursing/chapter/chapter-6-documenting-sources/){target="_blank"}.

📺 Next, go to the [TWU library
homepage](http://libguides.twu.ca/library_research/home) and click "[How
to develop research
skills](http://libguides.twu.ca/library_research/skills){target="_blank"}."
Begin by watching all of the video tutorials under the section
"upgrading your research skills." There are several short videos in this
section on Boolean searches, search history, and other search
techniques.

✏️ Answer the questions for this learning activity in your reflective
learning journal.

-   Briefly describe your experiences with upgrading your research
    skills.
-   What did you find worked well, what did not?
-   What boolean searches did you use, what inclusion or exclusion
    criteria did you select?

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::
::::


# Evaluating Scholarly Literature {#header}

After you have found several articles and books related to your research
topic and skimmed them for relevance, the next step is to evaluate your
information sources. Unfortunately, not all information that you will
come across is going to be credible and reliable. Just because you find
articles and books at the library does not mean that the information
will be accurate or of high quality.

As an MA Leadership student, and as a professional, it is imperative
that you are able to critically evaluate information you are reading in
order to conduct quality research yourself, inform policies and improve
your professional practice. To evaluate a source for quality and
credibility you need to consider the following:

-   **Authority:** Who is the author? What are the author's credentials
    (educational background, past writing experience, expertise on the
    topic)? Is the author's name cited in other sources or reference
    lists? A simple google search will help you explore these questions.
-   **Currency:** When was the source published? Is the source current
    or out of date for your topic? Remember the general rule is to use
    sources that have been published within the past 10 years.
-   **Purpose:** What is the author's intention? Is the information the
    author's opinion or is the author communicating evidence-based
    results? Who is the author's intended audience? Is it the academic
    community or consumers? Is the author's point of view objective and
    impartial? Is the language in the article or book free of emotion or
    bias?
-   **Content:** What kind of information is provided in the article or
    book? Is it a research article, popular book or opinion piece on a
    blog? Is the information provided backed up with references or
    sources? What is the length of the reference list?
-   **Publication type/process:** Who published the source? Was the
    source peer-reviewed? Is the publisher a university press or a large
    reputable publisher? Is it from a government agency? Is the source
    self-published?
-   **Bias and special interests:** According to Panucci and
    Williams (2010) bias can occur during all phases of research from
    design, implementation, and analysis to publication. Therefore,
    careful attention to the interpretation of research results and
    study design will help identify bias. Driscoll and Brizee (2017)
    suggest that when it comes to publishing research reports, "most
    major publishers are out to make a profit and will either not cater
    to special interest groups or will clearly indicate when they are
    catering to special interest groups".

::: {#additional-sources-for-finding-scholarly-literature .section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
### Additional sources for finding scholarly literature:[](https://learn.twu.ca/accessing-and-evaluating-scholarly-literature.html#additional-sources-for-finding-scholarly-literature){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

I also wanted to mention two other sources of information that you can
use to gather information on your research topic. The first is viewing
the TED talk videos. These videos are a great resource to help you
become familiar with a researcher and their work on a specific topic.
You can search almost any topic on the TED website, the videos are
usually under 20 minutes, and are very good. You can find TED site here:
[https://www.ted.com](https://www.ted.com/){target="_blank"}.

The second resource is using the reference lists at the back of a book
or of a journal article on your topic. These are both great places to
find additional sources of information on your topic and also help you
become familiar with who is publishing information in your area of
interest.
:::


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::::: {#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-2 .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="2.3.1"}
### Watch, Read, and Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/accessing-and-evaluating-scholarly-literature.html#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-2){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::::: reflect
📺 Begin this learning activity by watching the following video that
explains how to evaluate your sources.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bZ122WakNDY

📖 Next, read [chapter 6: Evaluating Sources in the Fredericksen and
Phelps
(n.d.)](https://press.rebus.community/literaturereviewsedunursing/chapter/chapter-5-documenting-sources/)
text.

📺 Next, watch the following videos:- [ ]{.mediaplugin
.mediaplugin_vimeo} and

:::: {.mediaplugin .mediaplugin_videojs .d-block}
::: {style="max-width:400px;"}
[evaluating a journal
article](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z6dOGkpI6H4){.mediafallbacklink}
:::
::::

.

✏️ Answer the questions for this learning activity in your reflective
learning journal at the bottom of this page.

-   Briefly describe how you found your online sources and whether or
    not you think they will be helpful resources for your topic.

-   What sources of information will you use the most to conduct
    research on your topic?

-   How will you evaluate these sources to make sure they are credible
    and reliable sources of information?

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::::
::::::


# Summary {#header}

In this unit you have learned about the research process and what is
involved in asking good research questions. You have learned how to
identify different scholarly sources, how to access those sources
through the TWU library, and how to keep track of your literature search
strategies and results. In addition, you have learned how to critically
evaluate scholarly sources. The activities in this unit are directly
related to your third, fourth and final assignments in this course.
Coming up next week in Unit 3 you will be discovering how to develop
your professional scholarly voice, particularly through your scholarly
writing.

::: {#references-1 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## References[](https://learn.twu.ca/accessing-and-evaluating-scholarly-literature.html#references-1){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Booth, W. C., Colomb, G. G. & Williams, J. M. (2008). *The Craft of
Research*(3rd ed.) Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, p. 51-65

Creswell, J. (2003). *Research design: Qualitative, quantitative, and
mixed methods approaches* (2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Driscoll, D. L. & Brizee, A. (2017). *Evaluating print versus internet
sources.* Retrieved from
[https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/553/04/](https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/553/04/){target="_blank"}

Fenigstein, A., Scheier, M. F., & Buss, A. H. (1975). Public and private
self-consciousness: Assessment and theory. *Journal of Consulting and
Clinical Psychology, 43*(4), 522-527.

Hart, E. A., Leary, M. R., & Rejeski, W. J. (1989). The measurement of
social physique anxiety. *Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology, 11*,
94-104.

Leary, M. R. (1983). A brief version of the Fear of Negative Evaluation
Scale. *Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, 9*, 371-376.

Leary, M. R., & Atherton, S. C. (1986). Self-efficacy, social anxiety,
and inhibition in interpersonal encounters. *Journal of Social and
Clinical Psychology*, *4*(3), 256-267.

Pannucci, C. J. & Wilkins, E. G., (2010). Identifying and avoiding bias
in research. *Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 126*(2), 619-625.

Plano-Clark, V., & Creswell, J. (2015). *Understanding research: A
consumer's guide* (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.

Rosch, D. M., Kniffin, L. E., & Guthrie, K. L. (2023). *Introduction to
research in leadership*. Information Age Publishing.

Schlenker, B. R., & Leary, M. R. (1982). Social anxiety and
self-presentation: A conceptualization model. *Psychological Bulletin,
92*(3), 641-669. *The Step-by-Step Guide & Research Rescue: Finding and
Narrowing Your Topic* (2017). Retrieved from
[http://guides.lib.byu.edu/c.php?g=216340&p=1428396](http://guides.lib.byu.edu/c.php?g=216340&p=1428396){target="_blank"}
:::


# Checking Your Learning {#header}

Now that you have completed the learning activities and assignments for
this unit, check the list below to see if you can do the following:

1.  Can you identify a research interest and develop a good research
    question?
2.  Can you employ different search strategies to locate different
    sources of scholarly literature?
3.  Can you evaluate the credibility and reliability of sources of
    scholarly literature?

*Feel free to review topics more in depth or continue on to the next
unit.*


