# Overview {#header}

Plano-Clark and Creswell assert that the decision to engage in
qualitative or quantitative research is driven by whether the research
problem calls for an explanation or an exploration (2015, p. 63). A
third genre---mixed methods---has developed. Mixed methods is the
conscious inclusion of both qualitative and quantitative methods and so
doing, seeks to mitigate some of the inherent tensions and weaknesses in
both. Unit 7 investigates mixed methods research design.

::: {#topics-6 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Topics[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-mixed-methods-research-reports.html#topics-6){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Unit 7 is divided into 3 topics:

1.  Introduction to Mixed-Methods Research
2.  Mixed-Methods Research Designs
3.  Using Mixed-Methods to Understand Leadership.
:::

::: {#learning-outcomes-6 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Learning Outcomes[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-mixed-methods-research-reports.html#learning-outcomes-6){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

When you have completed this unit you should be able to:

1.  Discuss how a mixed-methods approach can advance research.
2.  Evaluate the quality of mixed methods research report on servant
    leadership.
3.  Apply a mixed-methods approach to the study of servant leadership.
:::

:::: {#activity-checklist-6 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Activity Checklist[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-mixed-methods-research-reports.html#activity-checklist-6){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Learning Activities**
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Activity:** Read chapter 12 of your text. Watch a video.

  **Activity:** Evaluate the use of the mixed methods approach in a
  servant leadership article.

  **Activity:** Read an article and reflect in your learning journal.

  **Assessment:** Contribute to the course discussions. See Assessment
  tab in Moodle for details.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {#resources-6 .section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
### Resources[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-mixed-methods-research-reports.html#resources-6){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Here are the resources you will need to complete the unit:

-   Rosch, D. M., Kniffin, L. E., & Guthrie, K. L. (2023). *Introduction
    to research in leadership*. Information Age Publishing.

-   *E-Resources:* The articles in this unit can be found through the
    [TWU library](https://www.twu.ca/library){target="_blank"}.
:::
::::


# Introduction to Mixed-Methods Research {#header}

This week, in Unit 7, I have prepared an audio message to introduce you
to mixed methods research. You can listen to my audio message below.

::: {style="font-size: 10px; color: #cccccc; line-break: anywhere; word-break: normal; overflow: hidden; white-space: nowrap; text-overflow: ellipsis; font-family: Interstate,Lucida Grande,Lucida Sans Unicode,Lucida Sans,Garuda,Verdana,Tahoma,sans-serif; font-weight: 100;"}
[hstrong](https://soundcloud.com/user-303479512 "hstrong"){target="_blank"
style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;"} · [Welcome to Unit 7
(2)](https://soundcloud.com/user-303479512/welcome-to-unit-7-2 "Welcome to Unit 7 (2)"){target="_blank"
style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;"}
:::


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-11 .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="7.1.1"}
### Activity: Watch, Read, and Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-mixed-methods-research-reports.html#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-11){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: reflect
📺 Begin this learning activity by watching the following video where
John Creswell explains what mixed methods research is. In this video Dr.
Creswell explains how the use of both qualitative and quantitative
research methods can provide a more complete picture.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=II_OoioL0-E

📖 Next, read chapter 12, "Mixed Methods Research," in Rosch, Kniffen,
and Guthrie (2023).

✏️ Finally, in your reflective learning journal, discuss the following
question:

1.  What are some of the strengths and challenges of using a
    mixed-methods approach?

2.  What would you would look for in a high quality mixed-methods
    research report?

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::
::::


# Mixed-Methods Research Designs {#header}

A wide variety of mixed methods research designs have been used by
researchers. It is common in mixed methods designs to see the
researchers count (quantify) certain kinds of qualitative data. As well,
you will encounter quantitative researchers reporting how their research
participants perceived or were emotionally impacted (i.e. qualitative
data) by the experimental treatment (Leedy & Ormrod, 2013, p. 97). As
you look at mixed methods designs, notice how the following
considerations help to differentiate the four variations of mixed
methods that Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015) distinguish:

-   What is the purpose of needing qualitative and quantitative data?
-   What is the sequence of qualitative and quantitative data
    collection?
-   What is the priority of the qualitative and quantitative data?
-   How do the two data sets inform each other?

For example in a **convergent parallel design,** only one data
collection phase is used, during which quantitative and qualitative data
collection and analysis are conducted separately yet concurrently. This
design is used to develop a more complete understanding of a topic or
phenomenon. In an **embedded (concurrent nested) design,** only one data
collection phase is used, during which a predominant method
(quantitative or qualitative) nests or embeds the other less priority
method (qualitative or quantitative, respectively). This design is used
o gain broader and in-depth perspectives on a topic. The **sequential
explanatory design** involves the collection and analysis of
quantitative data followed by the collection and analysis of qualitative
data. This design is used to help explain, interpret or contextualize
quantitative findings. The **sequential exploratory design** involves
the collection and analysis of qualitative data followed by quantitative
data collection and analysis. This designed is used to explore a
phenomenon and to expand on qualitative findings.


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-12 .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="7.2.1"}
### Activity: Watch, Read, and Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-mixed-methods-research-reports.html#learning-activity-watch-read-and-reflect-12){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: reflect
📺 Begin this learning activity by watching the following video on
Mixed-Methods research designs.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q4OFHOg3Azc

📖 Next, read the article by Beck (2014). [Antecedents of servant
leadership: A mixed methods
study](https://doi.org/10.1177/1548051814529993){target="_blank"} to
prepare yourself for the group activity in this unit.

✏️ After reading the article, reflect on the following questions in your
learning journal:

1.  What type of mixed-methods design was used in the article?
2.  Do you think mixed-methods research can provide a more complete
    picture for research on servant leadership?
3.  Why or why not?

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::
::::


# Using Mixed-Methods to Understand Leadership. {#header}

Mixed methods studies have the potential to provide strengths that
offset the weaknesses of both quantitative and qualitative research and
provide a more complete and comprehensive understanding of the research
problem than either quantitative or qualitative approaches alone.
Molina-Azorín and Cameron (2015) have highlighted four ways that mixed
methods research can benefit business research and this can be applied
to leadership studies. For example mixed methods can be beneficial for
leadership studies because:

1.  Collecting qualitative data can provide a deeper understanding of
    the leadership context.
2.  Attention to both process and outcome through the use of mixed
    methods can aid in building theory. For example qualitative findings
    can provide insight into what mechanisms contribute to a measured
    outcome.
3.  Complex organizations with different leadership roles would benefit
    from analyses that are integrated across micro and macro levels.
4.  The use of mixed methods can help bridge the academic-practitioner
    divide through enhancing the interpretation of results. For example,
    mixed methods can helps to explain findings or describe how causal
    processes work.


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-reflect .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="7.3.1"}
### Activity: Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-mixed-methods-research-reports.html#learning-activity-reflect){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: reflect
✏️ Begin this learning activity by writing a response to the following
questions in your reflective learning journal:

1.  Do you think mixed-methods is the best approach for research on
    leadership? Why or why not?

2.  How would you use a mixed methods approach to study servant
    leadership?

*Note that these questions relate to the assignment questions for this
unit. See Assessment for more details.*
:::
::::


# Summary {#header}

In general researchers conduct mixed methods studies when both
quantitative and qualitative data together provide a better
understanding of the research problem. The use of mixed method research
provides a number of advantages, namely:

-   Provides strengths that offset the weaknesses of both quantitative
    and qualitative research.
-   Provides a more complete and comprehensive understanding of the
    research problem than either quantitative or qualitative approaches
    alone.
-   Provides an approach for developing better, more context specific
    instruments.
-   Helps to explain findings or how causal processes work.

::: {#references-6 .section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
### References[](https://learn.twu.ca/understanding-mixed-methods-research-reports.html#references-6){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Leedy, P. & Ormrod, J. (2013). *Practical research: Planning and design*
(10th ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.

Molina-Azorín, J. F. & Cameron, R. (2015). History and emergent
practices of multimethod and mixed methods in business research', in
Hesse-Biber, S. & Johnson, R.B. (eds.), *Oxford handbook of multimethod
and mixed methods research inquiry*, pp. 466-485, New York: Oxford
University Press.

Rosch, D. M., Kniffin, L. E., & Guthrie, K. L. (2023). *Introduction to
research in leadership*. Information Age Publishing.
:::


# Checking Your Learning {#header}

::: progress
Now that you have completed the learning activities and assignments for
this unit, check the list below to see if you can do the following:

1.  Can you discuss how mixed-methods research can help advance
    leadership research?
2.  Can you evaluate the quality of mixed methods research report on
    servant leadership?
3.  Can you discuss how a mixed-methods approach can be applied to the
    study of servant leadership?

*Feel free to review topics more in depth or continue on to the next
unit.*
:::


