# Overview {#header}

"So I turned my mind to understand, to investigate and to search out
wisdom..." (Ecclesiastes 7:25).

Scholarly research reports can have profound impact on society. In this
course, we have been making the case that best practices are informed by
the wise and judicious application of research findings to particular
situations. Don't miss the importance of adverbs "wise" and "judicious."

Plano-Clark and Creswell tell us that we should "read research to learn
new knowledge about topics, to become informed on policy debates, and to
find suggestions for improving your practice" (2010, p. 15). 

Now, as we end this course, we will be bringing things to a close
through several experiential learning activities.

::: {#topics-9 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Topics[](https://learn.twu.ca/bringing-it-all-together.html#topics-9){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

This unit is divided into 2 topics:

1.  Issues of Credibility
2.  Leadership Decisions Revisited
:::

::: {#learning-outcomes-8 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Learning Outcomes[](https://learn.twu.ca/bringing-it-all-together.html#learning-outcomes-8){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

When you have completed this unit you should be able to:

1.  Evaluate the safeguards that are in place to uphold the integrity of
    the research process.
2.  Critically reflect on the importance of evidence-based decision
    making for transformational servant leadership.
3.  Create a formal literature review.
:::

:::: {#activity-checklist-9 .section .level2 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
## Activity Checklist[](https://learn.twu.ca/bringing-it-all-together.html#activity-checklist-9){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Learning Activities**
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Activity:** Watch the video [Battling Bad
  Science](https://www.ted.com/talksben_goldacre_battling_bad_science){target="_blank"}.

  **Activity:** Reflect in your learning journal.

  **Assessment:** Complete [Assignment 4: Research
  Proposal](https://learn.twu.ca/mod/assign/view.php?id=1085113 "Assignment 4: Research Proposal"){.autolink}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {#resources-9 .section .level3 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
### Resources[](https://learn.twu.ca/bringing-it-all-together.html#resources-9){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

Here are the resources you will need to complete the unit:

-   Goldcare, B. (2011, July). *Battling bad science.* (Video file).
    Retrieved from
    [https://www.ted.com/talks/ben_goldacre_battling_bad_science](https://www.ted.com/talks/ben_goldacre_battling_bad_science){target="_blank"}
:::
::::


# Issues of Credibility {#header}

Congratulations! You have made it to the final week of LDRS 591:
Scholarly Inquiry! This week you will be revisiting a question about
making informed decisions, discussing why evidence-based decision making
is important for the Transformational Servant Leader, and reflecting on
what your expectations are now for a high quality research report. You
will also be introduced to the MA Lead: Leadership Integration Project
(LDRS 697/698).

Before we finish this course, I want to take some time to address a
fundamental question that underlies our decision-making processes:
Simply stated, the question is "how can I know I can trust what I am
reading?" At the heart of this issue are three interrelated concerns: Is
the research work performed competently? Is it reported honestly? Are
the findings presented consistent with what other researchers would
conclude (Locke, et al., 2010, p. 12)? By now you are aware that the
reason behind much of the tedious detail provided in research reports is
aimed at addressing the question "is the research performed
competently?" Great efforts are expended in the publication process to
further address research competence, honesty, and consistency. As we
will see, the final concern introduces an element that can be
distressing.

::: {#competence-and-honesty .section .level5 .unnumbered .hasAnchor}
##### Competence and Honesty[](https://learn.twu.ca/bringing-it-all-together.html#competence-and-honesty){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

You will recall that earlier in the course it was suggested that you
always check the "Peer-Reviewed or Scholarly" box when doing an online
search of the literature. Your first line of establishing trust in the
quality of a research article is the review process followed in the
formal presentation and publishing of research.

Typically, the first opportunity a researcher has to disseminate their
work is when their PhD dissertation is defended and subsequently
published. The process involved in the successful defense of a
dissertation is lengthy and strenuous, to say the very least. In effect,
all three questions are addressed by the dissertation committee, which
functions, at that stage, as a committee of peers. Beyond that, another
first opportunity is to present papers at conferences. Such papers are
typically presented beforehand to a jury of peers who critique the paper
with the above three criteria in mind. Journal publication extends the
processes of peer review even beyond that of conferences. Typically,
articles submitted for publication are reviewed by peers who are experts
in the field, often blind (the author does not know who the reviewers
are or the reviewer does not know who the author is) or double-blind
(neither the author nor reviewer are known to each other). This process
results in juried or refereed or peer-reviewed articles that are
subsequently published. The peer-reviewing process is intended to
eliminate work which is flawed in fundamental ways. However, this
process is not infallible. Consider this honest statement:

> We must caution you, however, that it is not safe to believe that peer
> review operates with flawless precision as an absolute guarantor of
> quality in published research. The effectiveness of the peer review
> system can be no better than the quality of function produced by each
> part, and, despite the best efforts of editors and reviewers,
> judgments fail and mistakes do occur. Taken across journals, editors,
> and reviewers, there is enough residual variability to give all
> readers cause to be wary and to exercise one final step in quality
> control---by forming their own judgment about the adequacy of what
> they read. (Locke, et al., 2010, p. 35).

Be aware that all journals are not equally selective. Every discipline
has front-line journals that have the highest standards of selectivity,
and equally, every discipline has journals that are remarkable for their
lack of selectivity. You can get some insight into what you are dealing
with if you check the requirements for document submission that are
embedded somewhere in every journal. Often, you can gain insight by
looking at who the editors and reviewers are, and finally, the
reputation of the journal is important.

The reputation of the author of the article is also very important.
Academic credentials, academic honors, holding positions of influence,
association with major discoveries and longevity in the field are
important factors in establishing authorial reputation. These are major
considerations in deciding whether a particular author's work is
foundational in a given field.

Another positive indicator of research quality is if the research is
funded from a prestigious funding source. Ford, Carnegie, and Pew
Foundations meet those criteria, as do studies funded by the Canadian
Institute of Health Research (CIHR), National Institute of Health (NIH),
the National Science Foundation and the Natural Sciences and Engineering
Council of Canada (NSERC) . The criteria for funding from prestigious
funding sources meet or exceed those for prestigious journals. Related,
scholarly organizations often provide funds, or at least endorse
research studies. In the field of education, the Association for
Supervision and Curriculum Development (ASCD) is but one such
organization. In the social sciences, the Social Sciences and Humanities
Research Council (SSHRC) is another.

As you read research, there are some potential "deal-breakers" to be
aware of. First, although no study will be technically perfect, beware
of studies with obvious technical problems. The evaluation matrices,
particularly for the introduction, methods and results sections,
provided by Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015) are great places to begin.
Studies with numerous technical problems make trust difficult to
sustain.

**Sampling:** Sampling is one of the technical aspects of research that
deserves separate mention. Sampling lies at the very heart of a given
research study. Two primary issues are at stake here: Does the sample
truly represent the population? Does the sample allow for the
generalizing of results?

**Replication:** One of the strengths of the development of scholarly
literature is the reinforcement of the veracity of findings through
replication studies. A number of years ago the world was shaken by the
announcement by Pons and Fleischmann of the achievement of a cold-fusion
nuclear reaction. The problem was, not a single researcher was able to
replicate this, and eventually the researcher's methods were exposed as
flawed.

**Researcher Bias:** Clearly, obvious conflicts of interest with the
researcher contribute to the breaking of trust. Foundational to the
integrity of the research process is that the researcher be an
independent, free agent. While it is normal for researchers to find
results that are consistent for what was hoped for, trust is violated
when the researcher has a personal vested interest in a particular
favorable outcome. Locke, et al. correctly observe, "It is when the
benefits become tangible rather than just intellectual that there is
reason for special caution" (2010, p. 47). For that reason, it is always
wise to be cautious about studies released by organizations rather than
the study author. Finally, more subtle conflicts of interest emerge when
personal biases of the investigator remain unacknowledged and
unaccounted for. Included might be issues of theoretical commitments,
beliefs and ideological dispositions that influence the research process
such that the research itself becomes a tool for advancing the
researcher's personal agenda. Included in this is the accusation that
the researcher "found what he/she was looking for."

Finally, obvious errors either due to carelessness or poor researcher
decisions contribute to the erosion of trust. Poor scholarship is
evident when such errors are sufficient to call into question whether
the researcher has even a basic understanding of the field.
:::


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::::: {#learning-activity-watch-and-reflect-3 .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="10.1.1"}
### Watch and Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/bringing-it-all-together.html#learning-activity-watch-and-reflect-3){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::::: reflect
We have spent a great deal of time wrestling with the specifics of
research reports, and in so doing, you have developed set of
expectations regarding the quality of research reports and you have
increased your ability to sense potential problems. In this learning
activity you are asked to do the following:

📺 Watch the TED talk video [Battling Bad
Science](https://www.ted.com/talks/ben_goldacre_battling_bad_science){target="_blank"}.

:::: {style="max-width: 854px;"}
::: {style="position: relative; height: 0; padding-bottom: 56.25%;"}
:::
::::

✏️ In your reflective learning journal, consider the following
questions: 1. How can I know that I can trust what I am reading?

2.  How do I know the research has been performed competently?

3.  How do I know the research is reported honestly?

4.  How do I know the findings presented are consistent with what other
    researchers would conclude?

    *Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
    assessment for this unit.*
:::::
::::::


# Leadership Decisions Revisited {#header}

In unit 1 you were asked to discuss a recent decision you made as a
leader. You were then asked to think through how you made that decision.
For example, did you base the decision on previous experience, values,
company policy, empirical evidence or expert opinion? This course has
emphasized evidence-based leadership by equipping you to access,
evaluate, and apply the latest empirically-based evidence and contribute
to the scholarship base in the area of leadership studies. My hope is
that this course will convince you of the importance of basing your
leadership decisions on the best evidence available.


# Learning Activity {#header}

:::: {#learning-activity-reflect-2 .section .level3 .hasAnchor number="10.2.1"}
### Reflect[](https://learn.twu.ca/bringing-it-all-together.html#learning-activity-reflect-2){.anchor-section aria-label="Anchor link to header"}

::: reflect
✏️ As a final entry in your learning journal, reflect on the following
questions:

1.  In light of what you have learned in this course, prepare a response
    explaining why you think evidence-based decision making is important
    for the Transformational Servant leader.

2.  How will you use scholarly evidence in your leadership practice
    moving forward?

*Note that your journal is not graded, but will help you in your
assessment for this unit.*
:::
::::


# Summary {#header}

We have come to the conclusion of our course together. In this unit, you
had the opportunity to revisit a question about making informed
decisions, discuss why evidence-based decision making is important for
the servant leader, and reflect on your own expectations for a high
quality research report.


# Checking Your Learning {#header}

::: progress
Now that you have completed the learning activities and assignments for
this unit, check the list below to see if you can do the following:

1.  Can you evaluate the safeguards that are in place to uphold the
    integrity of the research process?
2.  Can you critically reflect on the importance of evidence-based
    decision making for transformational servant leadership?
3.  Can you create a critical literature review?

*Feel free to review topics more in depth or continue on to your final
assignment submission.*
:::


